Or it's when the last video we created the two files that are required which are index Pietsch P and
style that's VSS we created the code.
The common block in our style sheet we also created the base of each team all in the head tags along
with some of the dynamic code that we can use in wordpress.
We're going to do now is go in the body and I'm going to just add some very basic HDMI cable we're going
to create our tag which is an age to you know five tag and let's put in H1 and in each one I want the
web site name.
Now remember we use this piece of dynamic code in the title we can actually take that and put that in
the H-1 as well.
So now if we save that and we look at our front end we get this WordPress dev.
All right.
Now if we wanted to change that we could go to settings in where we have the site title we could change
this to say my web site save it and now that changes to my Web site.
In addition to the name we can also include this tag line.
All right so to do that let's go and we'll create a small few small tags and then here we want that
blog info.
But instead of using name we want to use description.
All right now if we go and look at that reload and see if we get just another WordPress site.
OK which is coming from here.
People say the best Web site ever
and there we go.
All right.
I'm actually not going to put that in small tags.
Let's put it in a spin
.
OK so let's add more HVM.
Here we're going to go under the header and you'll see a div class in the main.
All right.
And what we're going to want to do now is we're going to want to fetch our blog posts and wordpress
uses something called the loop where the main loop and that is all your blog posts.
It will fetch every blog post that you have.
OK.
And regardless of the category or whatever it may be without specifying any restrictions it's going
to get every post.
So first thing I'll do is check to see if there are any posts.
So we're going to use an if statement for that and I'm going to use the shorthand.
All right.
Now you could just as well go like this.
OK but I prefer to use this syntax so that we can quickly go in and out of PH p.
All right so we're going to say if you have underscore posts.
OK so that's that's checking to see if there are any posts in wordpress.
All right and we probably want to put in the else here as well.
All right.
If there are no PPOs then we just want to let the user know.
Now instead of just spitting out text we're going to use a function we're going to say Echo.
WP auto P and what this does is it takes double line breaks and automatically makes them into paragraphs
.
All right so it's a good function to use when you just want to output text.
OK so we're going to say sorry
no posts were found.
All right.
And then here let's just say very.
This is just temporary.
Well say post-fight.
All right so let's go and reload and you can see we get posts found.
Now if we go in our back end goal posts in C we have.
Hello world.
Let's go ahead and move that to the trash and if we go back and reload we get SARINO posts were found
.
All right so we know that that's working.
Now let's go into the trash and just restore that
OK.
Now obviously we don't want to just tell the user that they're there or post we want to display them
.
So let's go back into here.
Get rid of that and we're going to use a while loop for this.
All right.
Actually we need a speech tag.
OK.
So we're going to say while I have underscore posts.
Ok now with wordpress it we have to use this thing called the post.
So right here we're going to say that underscore post which is a little weird as far as the syntax.
I don't I've never really seen this anywhere else aside from WordPress but just know that you have to
have this as well.
Right.
And down here we're going to say and while again this is just using shorthand syntax you could just
use the curly braces.
What we're gonna do here is when it finds a post we want to get the title.
So I actually put this in and H-3 handles a Ph P title which is a function.
Go and reload.
And now you can see that it's getting the hello world title.
Now just to just for example let's go ahead and create a post.
And so we'll call this my blog post.
And let's just get some sample text.
Ok so I'll go and paste that in.
Let's make this a couple paragraphs
.
OK then let's publish.
Now if we go on reload you can see it gives us my blog post.
Now to get the actual content will go right under this.
And let's say Pietsch P the content K. You can see word Pritt word press makes it really easy in terms
of the names of the functions.
OK so now that's giving us each blog post content in the splaying.
Now you probably want the date.
OK there's different things that will want to display the date.
Maybe the author categories things like that.
So let's go right under the title and we'll put it in the div we'll give it a class of Mella
Karen and let's say created by and then we want the author's name so we can say ph P The author
crack reload and you can see we get created by admen.
OK that's the user name of the person that created the post.
Now if you want the date we can say created by the author on and then we'll say p p the day C see that
gives us k created by admin on May 13th.
So it gives us the date.
All right.
Now you can format the date in a lot of different ways.
If you know ph P and you've worked with the date function you know that there's a lot of different formatting
options.
So let's take a look here.
So these are all used to format dates.
I'm not going to go through all of this because it's a lot there's examples down here.
For instance let's grab this.
OK we can take that and we can actually put that in the day as a parameter.
OK let's see if that gives us and you can see now we get this format with the day the date the time
.
PM or am.
OK so there's a lot of different ways you can format it.
One thing that I like to do is I like to use the time instead of the date.
Now if you just use the time like that it gives you just that the time doesn't give you the date but
you can actually format it to give you the day.
OK so in here we'll say Jeff lowercase j.
Y for the year and then for the time we'll say gee Cole and I say all right.
And if we take a look at that gives us the date and the time OK so it's all up to you it's all preference
.
So before we go let's just get a little a little bit of styling going here.
Now I'm going to add a footer to the bottom here.
Put a paragraph in here and we can actually make this dynamic.
Let's do
a copyright.
And then for the year instead of just typing in the year
we can use the date and then just pass in as a parameter y.
If we look at that.
So we get copyright 2016 and then if we want the site name we can just say for log info and pass in
the name.
All right so now we have a dynamic footer.
Now just to add some base styling Let's go to the style sheet and let's do body
font family.
Now the idea of this this whole project actually is not to create some great looking theme I just want
you to get familiar with the code and how themes are set up.
It's a font size 15 pixels color.
Dark gray say background like.
And then we'll take the header
and let's see let's do background.
We'll make this darker
and make the color white.
Make sure the each one is white
and we'll add some padding
for the body.
Let's say margined 0 and paddings 0
and head or each one.
I'm going to set margins 0 0
and let's say that the line height of the body to 1.7 am
all right.
Now the reason you see this up here this space is because we're logged in as an admin.
So even on the front end it knows that it's trying to display the admin bar.
Now it's not displaying because we don't have the special function for it to display.
So let's go to index ph P and then down right before the body the ending body we're going to say ph
P W.P. underscore for K and if we save that and go back and reload.
Now you can see that we have the admin bar.
All right.
I'm actually going to add a little padding to that each one on the bottom
and then let's add a container div
you see container with will be 10 20 pixels and set margins to zero auto and overflow.
Auto Right.
And then we'll go into the header and say div class container
.
It will do the same thing in the main
and in the folder.
OK so now everything's moved in the middle.
And then let's add a little bit of styling to the folder and just copy what we have here in the header
.
And we'll text aligned to the center
All right.
So a little bit of margin to the main div
.
OK so now you can see that we have our head or we have our main area where we're looping through the
block through the post displaying them.
And we have our footer now common practice in wordpress is to break the header and footer into their
own files and then include them in the index.
So that's what we're going to do.
We're going to create a new file call it Hetter dog THP and then create a new file called for her dog
to be OK and then let's go to an index and we want to go from the very top down to where the ending
header tag is going to cut that.
And then we're going to replace it with PH p get underscore hether go to head or ph p place that n save
it and then Same thing with Forder we're going to get from the bottom up to where the footer starts
.
Cut it out.
Replace it with Ph p get water.
Place that in the filter file and everything should look the exact same.
All right good.
So I think we're going to stop here.
We've got quite a bit done in the next video.
I'll show you how we can actually make it so that we can click on these posts and it'll take us to that
actual individual post page.